Welcome. This is Jocco podcast number two with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening, I go. Good evening. So people ask me regularly what books I like. In fact, Tim Ferris asked me,
which he asks all of his guests, what books I have given to people, what books I regularly give to people.
How do I, what books do I gift, which I actually am not a real big gift gift gift for some reason?
I don't know why, but I don't really expect gifts from people and people of the world that should not expect gifts from me either.
Lessons not gives. Yes. Yes. So, but there is one book that I have given to a few people in my life.
And it is a book that was and still is very influential on me and especially on my perspective of leadership and really, especially in combat leadership.
And that book is called About Face. Now, here it is right here about face. If you're listening to audio, it's an 800 over 800 page book.
It's written by a guy named Colonel David Hackworth. Hackworth was a kind of a soldier's soldier.
And born in 1930, joined the merchant Marines towards the end of World War II at the age of 14, had the lie to get into the merchant Marines. Got done with that gig. He joined the army just after World War II.
He was still doing it. Sorry. What do you mean he had the lie to get into the merchant?
So he was too young. He was 14 years old. He lied about his age to get in at 14 to the merchant Marines when he went a few years later to join the army.
He was still too young and had to lie again to get into the army. Once he was in the army, he went over to Europe and he served directly underneath the war hardened veterans of World War II.
And those are the guys that brought him up in the ranks and taught him about hard training.
And really that's what they taught him. And again, that's one of those things that I look back on my military career and the Vietnam veterans that were still in the seal teams.
When I just got in the seal teams in 1991, there were still some veterans around from Vietnam and those guys, when those guys spoke, you listened.
Because they had some word to put out. And I absolutely listened to a lot of those lessons that those guys taught me, those of Vietnam veterans taught me. I carried on to them.
I held on to them and took notes and passed them on in a lot of those concepts are the basis of of what we wrote about in extreme ownership.
So he did that. He ended up getting a fighting career. So Korea was kind of his very first saw combat. He ended up getting a battlefield commission.
And if you don't know what that means, that means you're one of the foot soldiers and all of a sudden they go look you're a good leader. We're going to put you in charge. And that's exactly what happened to him.
He was wounded four times before the age of 21.
So the guy was a warrior. I'm going to read his read the book dedication here from the beginning of a bout face.
It says dedication to Steve Prasenko, who is one of the World War II combat hardened veterans that taught him how to soldier.
He says to Steve Prasenko, who showed us how to soldier to Henry DeBoer, who showed us how to die, to glove her Johns, who showed us how to lead.
And to all the dough boys, the ground pounders, the grunts, the American infantrymen, past, present, and especially future to them.
So the book is dedicated. So he wrote this book obviously to pass on the lessons that he learned. And I got to make a note here in read a little section because he talks about Henry DeBoer, who showed us how to die.
So this took place in the Korean War.
And I'll go right into it. They're in a big firefight and here's Hackworth.
I saw a soldier prone on the ice. He'd been there a long time. I thought he was dead, but then I saw movement and I rushed out to get him. My God, I thought it's DeBoer.
Private Henry C DeBoer had been with George company since early in the war. He was one of the few survivors from the original third-potsoon,
basically because in those first-hard months of combat, he had not seen even one good firefight. He had an uncanny six-sense. He could always tell when the platoon was in for a major bloodletting.
And invariably, he'd find an excuse to be somewhere else. So here's a guy that Hackworth is saying this guy was avoiding combat, finding excuses.
Normally, that excuse was going on sick call, which by regulation he was allowed to do, and he couldn't stop him even though you knew the only thing that was wrong with him was a chronic case of cowardice.
So absolutely he's being called a coward. DeBoer himself even admitted he was a coward, and we hated him for it.
He was an outcast from the platoon. We even had a little song about him, which we'd sing in Unison. Out of the dark, jury, Korean countryside comes the call of the DeBoer board.
Sick call, sick call, sick call. He pulled this, he pulled a stunt only yesterday as we were saddling up for this very operation.
He'd sense the bloodletting all right, but he hadn't figured that the foggy overcast covering the battlefield would not lift, and the attack would be postponed.
He'd returned from the dock last night with a clean bill of health, most surprised to see us. The rest of the platoon took great pleasure in the fact that his malingering little ass would be in the thick of things in the morning.
So he, there was a big operation planned, and he was supposed to go on it. He snuck out, went to sick call, said he sick.
The operation got postponed because of whether he shows back up and hearing his inscribed.
Now, back to the book. Now, DeBoer was ash and faced, hit in the Chester gut. I don't know there was a lot of blood, and well into shock.
I knew he wasn't going to make it. Come on DeBoer, you're going to be fine. You'll be all right.
I said, giving him the old pep talk, as I grabbed his jacket collar and started sliding across the ice.
But DeBoer said, no, Sarge, just leave me. You're going to get hit. Just leave me, Sarge.
Then suddenly he groaned, Sarge, I shipped my pants, and that was it. He was gone. I left him and ran back.
DeBoer in death became one of the greatest heroes of our outfit. It was true he'd never been anything in his army life, but a coward.
But he died right. He died like a man. He didn't say, take care of me. He said, leave me. Take care of yourself.
And when I told the other guys the story, old DeBoer became a legend in the Paltoon.
So that's the kind of thing that hack worth saw as a young leader.
From there, he, when the Korean War ended, he was, you get highly decorated. Korean War ended, did time.
A bunch of different units in between the Korean War and the Vietnam War kicked off. He went right into the thick of it again.
Ended up as a battalion commander in Vietnam. And here's his list of awards.
Two distinguished service crosses. Ten silver stars. Four legions of merit. Distinguished flying cross. Eight bronze stars. Eight purple hearts.
So you have a guy here that is obviously a highly dedicated soldier. A guy that would do anything for the army and for America.
But, and this is a big butt. This guy was a rebel. He was a true rebel. And he went out and went against his officers. He went against the way the army was running out of the war in Vietnam.
And eventually, he went out in public on national television and spoke out against the Vietnam War and said that we should not fight there anymore.
So he went on this TV program. It's called Ashe's Nanswers. It was a big show in the, in the 70s.
And he did this interview. And again, you got to remember, this guy is an active duty, an active duty, highly decorated senior officer in the army.
I mean, this guy is all by all count should be the most dedicated.
And here he is, and this is what he says. You know, this is one of the quotes from this interview.
I think that the top managers of the army and there's a big difference between a leader, a combat leader and a manager. The top managers were so involved in systems analysis in the normal bureaucracy of it all.
They were that they were fighting from day to day just to move paper that crossed their desk and they couldn't see the force for the trees.
In February, when we went to the Laos, we went into Laos conventionally. The idea was to block the enemies supply routes. So we dropped in there. We paid a horrible.
The Vietnamese paid a horrible price. Tremendous mistakes were made. Again, conventional thinking.
He's going to, he hounds on this a lot. This idea of conventional thinking. And again, you got a guy that's institutionalized me. The guy's been an in military service until he was 14 years old.
You'd think that they would have him mentally sedated to a point where he would just think what they told him to think. But he does not.
That's the dichotomy of this guy. Again, conventional thinking, conventional thinking, put us in that operation rather than have a light mobile gorilla force.
But a gorilla force that belonged to the government of Vietnam or an American army operating in there, like Gorilla. So he was saying the Vietnamese should be doing this. The South Vietnamese arm is should be doing this.
Or if we're going to do it, we need to operate like Gorilla.
It takes a thief to catch a thief. What we need is a thief. We don't need to conventionally train FBI agent dashing through the woods with a large force behind him.
We need small people well trained, highly motivated. And this is what we have not had.
Because what we have now, this is where you say to yourself, wow.
This because what we have now among the army is a bunch of shallow dilatants who run from pillar to post trying to punch their card, serving minimum time at company level because the exposure.
You are very close to the heat of the furnace there, meaning you can get in trouble easily.
So he is on national television, a colonel in the army, one of the most highly decorated individuals at the time.
And he calls, he says the army is filled with a bunch of shallow dilatants who run from pillar to post trying to punch their card.
And purposely avoiding combat. This is what that second piece means.
You don't see this kind of behavior from army officers very often. I will tell you that.
And here's kind of how he closed it out.
She says, he's the interviewer. Sorry, he says the interviewer says, Colonel, do you think, do you feel it's possible?
You have become too emotionally involved in Vietnam.
And he says, I have become emotionally involved in Vietnam.
One couldn't have spent the number of years I spent Vietnam without becoming emotionally involved.
One couldn't see the number of young studs die or be terribly wounded without becoming emotionally involved.
I just have seen the American nation spend so much of it. It's a wonderful, great young man in this country.
I have seen our national wealth being drained away. I see the nation being split apart and almost being split a sonner because of this war.
And I am wondering to what end it is all going to lead to.
So that is a devastating statement.
And when it came out, they immediately, he put in his resignation papers immediately.
And the army started to investigate him immediately and they tried to get him in trouble for every little minor infraction that happened underneath his command at any time in any situation.
They really tried to come after.
And he ended up retiring.
And I think one of the things that he expressed there is a dichotomy that anybody in a combat leadership position will feel.
And that is, and I don't, in fact, this might be the largest dichotomy of all.
And that's a big statement.
And that is, as a combat leader, you are told and beyond being told, you are ingrained and beyond being ingrained.
You are inherently inherently caring of your guys.
There is no one more important than your guys.
And the dichotomy is, as much as you care about these guys, and you love these guys, and you do anything for them.
But that being said, it is your job to send these guys on operations that can kill them.
So that is a huge dichotomy.
And I think that's one of the things that hack worth when he saw it on a grand scale, because he could deal with it in his own groups.
But when he saw it on a grand scale, you know, young men being sent to their death.
It's, it's, I think, what turned him.
So he ended up after this.
You know, he kind of continued down that path, and he moved out of America.
He moved to Australia.
And he ended up kind of playing a big role in the anti-nuclear weapons movement.
And I mean, that's kind of where he went.
So I, you know, hack was a complex person, hack worth.
That's kind of his nickname, everyone calls him hack hack was a complex person.
And I don't agree with everything that he says.
I don't agree with everything that he does.
And why everything that he did, I don't worship the guy.
And you know, what's interesting about me questioning what his decisions and questioning his leadership is like,
that's something I learned from him. Like, don't even, don't listen to anybody 100%.
You know, you should always be questioning what people are saying and making sure and confirming it through other sources and other experiences that it's the right thing to do.
And that's something that I always try to do with everything is, is use that attitude.
And so I, I, I don't, I don't recall.
I was actually trying to come in here tonight. I was trying to figure out when I got this book.
And I actually have no idea. I don't remember it. It wasn't appeared in my life at some point.
And I don't know how it don't never made the recommendation to me. I just somehow ended up with it.
And, but I got it.
I got it before, one thing I do was I got it before September 11, 2001.
When that happened, I had already read it. I had it in my brain.
But when I was in Ramadi in 2006, this, I, I literally read this book every night that I was not out in the field.
I read this book every night.
And, you know, I just opened it up. You could open up anywhere in that, in this book, and you could find something.
Some, some piece of information, some similar situations, some less and learned that you could take from it.
And it could guide you. And, and you know, one of the, like, like, for instance, and it all applied to what I was doing. The situation I was in.
So, for instance, we were in Iraq and we were supposed to be working with Iraqi soldiers who are unmotivated, poorly equipped, poorly trained, uneducated, bad morale.
And that's, and corrupt. So, there, the money is all disappearing. It's, it's a horrible situation.
And, and what was hackworth doing Vietnam, well, they were working with the South Vietnamese Army. Who was corrupt and unmotivated, and poorly trained, and all those same things.
So, they were dealing with the same things we were doing. And that's one example of many.
Uh, I took a little break about three months into deployment. I took a little break, and I'm not 100% sure why.
But I found another book. Somebody had left the book in our building. And the book was, speaking of dichotomy, the book was the electric cool aid asset test by Tom Wolf.
And I think at this point, I, you know, three months into deployment, I think I needed some kind of mental escape, you know, at least, you know, I was, I was like dealing with combat all day.
And then I'd go in my room and read about combat at night. And I kind of was like, okay, you need to think about something else for 20 minutes or 10 minutes.
It just get out of it. Get it out of your head. And I randomly found this book. So I said, and I had read the right stuff by Tom Wolf, which was a fantastic book.
And so I said, oh, this, I'm sure this will be interesting as well. So as I read this book,
the electric cool aid asset test, which is about hippies and drugs and the 60s, and that's what it's about hate Ashbury, the whole nine yards.
And there's a quote in the middle that I actually pulled out because I will never forget this quote. And how this quote was so starkly contrasting with about face.
And I'm going to read this quote. And I kind of forget the whole set up to it, but there are at some kind of a concert. And there's all the screaming and craziness going on at some rock and roll concert.
And, you know, he says, I couldn't hear what they were screaming either, but you don't have to.
They're screaming me, me, me, me, me. I'm me. That's the cry of the ego. And that's the cry of this rally. It's concert.
Me, me, me, me. And that's why wars get fought ego because enough people want to scream, pay attention to me.
And it was one of those things that I read and it was so starkly different from the situation that I was in where I was with these guys in my own task, you know, the seals in my task unit, the marines that were there on the ground with us, the army soldiers that were down on the ground with us.
And these guys were all so selfless. The last thing they cared in the world about was me, me, me, me.
And I got done with that book and I went right back to about face because I related to it. I understood and I said to myself, this is true. This is selfless. This is where I'm at right now.
Yeah.
So I went back into about face and I continued and eventually this book is the one book that I've given to a few of the guys that worked closely for me.
Include and included in life, life-babbin who, you know, one of my brothers who wrote extreme ownership with me and he's one of the guys that, you know, he's got his got his copy and it's all doggy or it's marked up because it's a great book.
So obviously when we like on Twitter and Facebook and we asked for people to give us questions. A lot of the questions are about
leadership and so I kind of as I thought about diving in a little bit to
to this book and and talk about a little bit of course you could spend, you know, we could do 50 episodes, 10 hours each on this book.
So it's so dense and filled with information not to mention 800 page.
Yeah. There's um, but I wanted to I wanted to go a little bit deep on this one situation where
David Hacworth, Colonel Hacworth, had now gone into Vietnam and there was a battalion of soldiers and they were kind of a disaster.
And it was kind of the standard of like what what had happened with some of the poor leadership in Vietnam and he took over.
And again, just to kind of to kind of lay out what Hacworth was like, here's a quote that kind of starts off the chapter.
Hacworth was essentially a legend.
Just before he arrived, I recall going to the G1 and asking who the new Battalion commander was going to be. The deputy G1 said, can't tell you, you know how personal people are.
They like to hit pocket everything.
But he's Mr. infantry.
I thought who the hell is Mr. infantry?
Of course, I'd read about David Hacworth. So his kind of nickname was Mr. infantry. That was what is reputation. What does hit pocket mean?
Meaning if people had a charge of personnel and moving people around inside the military, they know they know little bits of information.
And instead of giving it to you, they keep it close to keep it in their pocket. That's all means.
And then to kind of explain though that, you know, there's some people that go, yeah, this guy is a great leader. He's coming in.
But to kind of show you what the attitude of the troops is.
You can't remember this is Vietnam. We got drafties. We got hippies. We got all kinds of anti-American. I mean, it's crazy times.
Doc Holly, this is another quote, who's it from a medic, Charles Windsor. Doc Holly and I were sitting in the aid station drinking beer and saying,
God, this is going to be hell. We've got some GI Joe life around here who's going to just ruin us.
That was probably the lowest point in morale in the battalion. Not only had we been taking a lot of casualties,
but now it looked as if someone was going to come in and kick ass and make career soldiers out of us.
And it goes on to go through more quotes where they actually talk about a price on his head.
The soldiers talk about, hey, we need to kill this guy before he gets us killed, which is just kind of crazy.
Yeah, that's right. You know, you hear about that. You hear about that Vietnam, this idea of, it's called Fragging.
There's a name for it. They were going to frag our officer means we're going to kill our own officer. And it's something that definitely happened.
And it's a, this is a perfect case of where people talked about it possibly happening.
So to get into this chapter a little bit, here's Hackworth talking about when he took over.
There was no sense in showing this sorry outfit. I was in the state of shock.
It wasn't just the command post group that it wasn't just that the command post group slept on
Cots inside tents that they had folding chairs and state side foot lockers, portable radios,
and plastic coolers filled with beer and coke at their fire base out in the field.
More than that, it was that they had portable toilets too. So here he is. These guys are supposed to be out in the field.
And they have all this luxury. And that's something that we saw in Iraq where
there was certain bases where they had Starbucks and subway sandwiches and McDonald's literally had those things.
And you could defer to the you go out into the fray, you get guys I've ever visited some of my first
deployments to Iraq. We go out to some of the big guys, you know, completely in the bush living like
just barely scraping by on one MRE a day.
So, now he's talking about the command post and he says that the command post
apparently were blissfully unaware that just nearby their troops were crapping on the ground
and not even covering it up. So you have complete just disaster situation going on here.
And then the general, that's in charge of all these battalions, as he's about to put
hack worth in charge, guy named General U.L. says, it's a pussy battalion.
And I want tigers, not pussy's. But he'd gotten it wrong.
With the fourth battalion, 39th and 39th infantry, that's where he's taken over. It was not a
question of feline degree. As far as I could see, this unit was not even a military organization.
So that's that's what this guy walked into. Come on.
It was total, he goes on to say, it was total disintegration.
Throughout the fire base, a mud amid the shit and toilet paper and the machine gun ammo laying in the mud
were troops who were love beads and peace symbols and looked more like something out of hate
ashberry than soldiers in the US Army. All were low on spirit and a few were high, openly
on marijuana. There was minimum security. Few men carried are cared for their weapons.
Most had let them go red with rust as they stroll around without them.
Grenades weren't taped. And when a unit moved out, most of the gunners were their ammo
ponte of viestile. The ideal way to guarantee a weapon jam sometime down the track when dirty
dented cartridges were inserted into their M60s. So what we have here is a total lack of discipline.
And another thing that this reminded me of was I was always trying to, when I was in the
train of pull as much information about war as I could. And one of the recent wars and recent
times was when the Russians went into Chechnya the first time and they had a really hard time.
And I read the after actions reports from the Russian officers that had taken troops there.
And one of the ones that I remembered, I've looked for it to try and find it again. I don't know if it's
not a war at went. But I haven't been able to find it. But the guy basically says, it all started
when the guy stopped shaving. And when they stopped shaving, then the next thing you do that
weren't clean their guns, then the next thing you knew, they weren't staying
aware while they were on watch and the next thing you know, they were getting overrun and killed.
So those little things, those little things that you do write all the time are important.
And that's the same thing with you and with me and with our lives. It's those little things.
Those little disciplines, those little daily disciplines.
Little cycle of like you waking up at 4.30 in the morning, like me, like as a ritual, you know,
that's one of them. You know, I tried to do something physically active every day.
That's another thing. When you lose that discipline, what goes next?
The next thing on the list, really. And then the next thing, you know, you're sleeping
in until nine, you're knocking your workout and things are going horribly backwards.
But it's those little disciplines. And whenever I feel myself to slip, I always think of this.
I always think of the fact that there's these little disciplines that mean so much.
And they build on each other.
The interesting is I didn't really look at it that way ever and that makes complete sense.
Where, yeah, you let the little things slide and slowly by slowly, those things that you let
slide start getting bigger and bigger. I always thought of it where I remember hearing
somebody say, if you can't make your bed, right? Right. Then how do you expect to run a company?
I think it was. How do you expect to be the boss of a company?
Yeah. And I remember thinking, well, unless your company is a bedmaking company, that has nothing
to do with it. And this is also a little bit counter to something I've heard recently when they talk
about, have you heard this decision fatigue? Have you heard that?
So it's basically this theory where every decision you make takes some sort of toll on you mentally.
Yes. And so you should not fatigue your decisions. You should only should save your decisions
for important things. So for instance, is that kind of like if you're with a group of people and
once one guy says, hey, where do you guys want to eat? And everyone says, oh, I don't care where do you
want to eat? It's different. Not the same thing. It will be the same thing. Maybe a way, lower level.
But the level of this, when I heard about the decision fatigue, the level that I heard this on was,
like, every day, you know, you shouldn't think about what you're going to wear that day.
You should have your clothes ready because if you wake up, you have to think, oh, do I wear the
blue shirt or the white shirt and then it becomes a decision? And then you decide, oh, what am I
going to have for breakfast? May I have this? And each one of these decisions chip away.
Now, that's fine. I don't really, I don't know if I believe that 100%, but one thing I do think is the
opposite is I think that the smaller disciplines instill and create stronger disciplines. So the
waking up early, the making of the bed, the checking off your list, all those little things that you do.
I think increased discipline. I know what, when I fall off the discipline wagon for whatever
reason, it's like a train. You know, I'm like, oh, God, what just happened, I'm all of a sudden,
my room is a mess and my, it just goes downhill in three days and two days and I go, oh my god,
get back in the game. So, and then as soon as I get back in the game, I implement those smaller
disciplines, boom, we're back in the game and the bigger disciplines fall in the place.
So, continue. Now, there was a general that had swung through Vietnam. General James will know
and he observed and this is going to the book. General James will know observed and wrote to the
chief of staff, Westmoreland. We all knew that is less than a month before. So before this
he had showed up before hack worth had showed up. This guy, General James will know
had observed and wrote to chief of staff, Westmoreland, less than a month before during his
whirlwind, nine day trip to the war zone. We'll know told the chief that the most, the almost
universal opinion among those he'd spoken with was that the young officers and enlisted men
being sent to Vietnam were indeed properly trained, prepared for combat, both by training and
mental conditioning. So this guy wrote this flowery report. After he goes, it goes to Vietnam for
nine days and you can imagine somebody like hack worth that spent five years in Vietnam. Somebody
shows up, spends nine days there. He's looking at this guy like he's an idiot. And this is a classic
statement about leadership. He said, this is hack worth going directly to the book again.
What a mistake it was to listen to the generals of corporate HQ who were briefed only in zero
defect terms and so far from the cutting edge expected nothing less. It was among the biggest mistakes
of the war. The politicians only listen to these generals and these generals to themselves.
That's that's crazy. And this is again when I was talking about questioning earlier and
I like I question hack worth and I question to everybody and everything I'm constantly asking
those questions because you don't know you don't know if you're just listening to the generals
that only listening to themselves back to the book. Few people asked the frontline soldiers.
The only ones who really knew. So you got to talk to your frontline troops. Yeah.
That's just a mandatory piece of leadership. I liked I had a great word on this. It's called
incestual knowledge. Right. When the when this little group just talks among themselves and they
believe everything that they hear and they agree with everything they hear. And you know where
you see this? We see this and we saw it with mixed martial arts because you saw guys that got so
into their own little thing with no outside influence that when they all believe their own
crap. Yeah. And you get to can be too fully. It can be that way. And you got to have an open mind
with everything. You know and definitely you get to use one of the things you got to have an open
mind with and see what other people are doing and how are they doing it. And that's the miracle
these days as you can be seeing getting all this influence from the internet. There's all these different
people out there and showing how they're doing it and it's a whole new world. But you got to have
an open mind. If you haven't don't have an open mind and all you do is incest you as Lee
converse with other people that believe the same thing as you you're wrong. And this is crazy.
This is this is again. This is what will know says what is left and he's talking about the
this Vietnam. What is left appears to be a mopping up operation? I do not believe that in the
current situation the enemy has the capability to more than harass us. I did not find a division
commander who disagreed with this conclusion with respect to his own tactical area of operation.
This is 1968. And this general comes back saying hey the enemy can't do anything better as us.
And that's this guy was the ranking guy going back and reporting to West Moreland in charge
the whole army. Crazy, crazy that this could be taking place. As we go a little bit deeper into this,
they had a board that explained is like a scoreboard for how many VC, Vietcong, how many of them
had been killed or wounded and how many Americans had been killed or wounded. And when he took over
when when Hackworth took over the enemy had zero Ka. So that there've been zero enemy killed,
zero enemy wounded and zero enemy captured. Meanwhile, the Americans had at 24 killed and
485 wounded. So did you hear what I just said? I did. So the enemy had zero killed,
zero wounded, zero captured and yet we had lost 24 Americans killed and 485 wounded.
This goes back to what I was talking about where I would see these similarities in Iraq
to Vietnam because these wounded came from rockets, mortars, booby traps, friendly fire.
Rockets, mortars, booby traps, and friendly fires. I think
70% of the casualties in Iraq were from IEDs, which an IED is an improvised explosive device.
That's a booby trap. You know, the other big percentage was from getting mortared. You know,
where you're sitting inside your firebase and all of a sudden bombs start raining down from the sky.
And it's weird too. Like this is something that we talk about often. It's something that
that Hackworth talked about as well. If you ever heard someone say, in Vietnam, we won every major
battle, but we just lost the one we've heard that. It's a statement that people make.
And as I started to analyze that, because when I was younger, I was like, yeah, that's right,
because we're the best military in the world. We would never lose to these guys. We're awesome.
And we are awesome. We are the best military in the world. But if I have a platoon of, you know,
40 guys in the army. And we lose a guy to a booby trap. And we lose a guy to a mortar.
And we never confront the enemy. Who's going to win the war? It's not us. So that was a very
very disturbing. And we did see some of this. We did see some of this in Iraq, where things
would get sugar coated. And that's one thing I'd go back to the book. And I'd say, why are they
sugar coating this? What's going on? Somebody needs to speak the truth. We need to tell them what's
really going on here. Hey, I raised my hand and say, no, boss, it's not like that. We need this.
We need, this is where we're going to lose. So what's going wrong? And luckily, we had some very
strong, military leaders that did that, you know, Petraias, for sure, who kind of implemented the
surge. We had Mick Master who I talk about a lot, HR Mick Master up and up in Northern Iraq.
And, you know, the guy that I worked directly for, Colonel Sean McFarland, who's now in general.
Those guys were guys that spoke the truth. And I would hear, I heard Mick Farland do that. I would hear
that guy say, no, actually we can't do that. No, that's actually the wrong idea. No, we actually
need to engage with these tribal leaders, even though they were criminals six months ago. No,
this is what we need to do. So I got to see some of that leadership step up, which was awesome.
He goes on to talk about how I got to read this. So he goes, what's called a change of command,
which is when, you know, I'm in charge, but I'm going to give you the Battalion. So the following
day I took over the Battalion from Lieutenant Colonel Franklin A. Hart in a parade field,
change a command in the middle of the Macong Delta. What kind of war have I gotten myself into?
I wondered, a perfectly starched general U.S. there, having flown in for the occasion in his
polished choppers. There were other brass too, and photographers, the American flag, but the
Battalion colors, which were ceremoniously passed on to me. And all of this before the scrimmiest,
most spiritless assembly of soldiers I'd ever seen. Incredibly, none of the generals are
Colonel seemed to notice the slack condition of my new charges or their positions.
Lieutenant Colonel Frank Hart would still receive a legion of merit for his job well done with
the Battalion. So picture that in your mind, you're taking over this Battalion. These guys are just
complete disaster. The general show up in their polished helicopters wearing starched uniforms,
and they don't even, they just ignore. It's like they're like, got blinders on. They're just ignoring
the fact that these guys are just a total disaster. Crazy thoughts. Crazy thoughts. So
then we get into the point where, and this is where, when we get these questions on Twitter
about leadership, and this is sort of what drew me back to thinking about talking about this book.
It was because as we get these questions, you end up with a, with just really great examples.
And a lot of the questions that we get are, what do you do with people that are on motivated? What
do you do when, and everyone has that question of what do you do when people are motivated?
And I'll tell you, can you imagine if there's anyone less motivated than a
you know, constriptor, a draftee from Vietnam, from the Vietnam War? It's, it's kind of crazy.
Sorry, go ahead. Yeah, no problem. One of the things that HAC says is,
little could I have guessed that whipping, it indeshape, meaning the Battalion, what are
require every little bit of knowledge I'd gained in, in the interim. So his whole career, he
realized this whole career is now to take every trick that he'd learned to get these guys in the shape.
Now, what's interesting about this is he says whipping these guys in the shape. And this is
something I've had, I've had executives when I get on with the CEO and he'll say,
I need you to come in here and whip my guys in the shape. And it's always, it's one of those quotes
that I have to push back on because they think I'm going to come in there like a drill instructor
and park or there's a people who are going to, and it just doesn't work that way. And you know,
you have to do more than that. So when one of the initial things that he did
was institute discipline. And as you know, discipline is one of my favorite words.
Going back to the book here, from the outset, I realized that to make this unit an effective military
force, I'd have to implement about a thousand changes. So I figured we'd start with five
a day, little things, basic things like where your steel pot helmet and clean and carry your rifle
at all times. And ammunition will not be worn poncho viste. My first order was that come darkness
the fire support base perimeter would pull back 300 meters. The troops instantly began to grumble
at this, but at the next order, but it was the next order that really began the muteness feeling
within my hard luck outfit. Anything you can't carry 24 hours a day is gone on the next chopper.
So here are these guys that were living in tents that had toilets out there, radios and all the
stuff. And he said anything you can't carry with you. Use going is out of here. That's hard
core discipline. And they piled it all up in the middle of the the middle of the base and had a big
helicopter come in and take it out. Now one thing he says here is he says, I wasn't there to have
them like me. And this is one of those dichotomies where, and I'm sure everybody at one point or
another who has worked for someone that is very abrasive and thinks they can just throw orders around
and no one likes working for that guy. It's awful. And so there's a fine line between listen,
I'm not here to make friends. And oh, I'm just going to be totally abrasive and treat everyone
like crap because you're not going to get people to follow you with that attitude. So he obviously
was very good at walking that fine line between pushing hard enough where he's like, hey, I'm not
here to make friends, but at the same time, not pushing him so hard that he's getting shot or there's
a complete mute knee against him. Yeah, you would think that someone who, who, it my experience when
people say that, I'm not here to make friends, you know, I'm here to whatever. It's usually
kind of like an excuse because they piss somebody off. Yeah. So I think that to really use that in an
in an accurate way or in a conducive way, I'm not here to make friends, is if you can show them results
and at the same time not necessarily, you know, be the nicest of guys. Then I think that's when
you start to walk that fine line. So it's beautiful that you said that. So this goes right into the
fact that a short time later. So after they pulled back this perimeter, so every night instead
of staying where they were just all relaxed, they packed up, they pulled back, they dug in.
A short time later, we were hit with a barrage of rocket and recorrelous rifle fire, but most
of it fell on the old positions when I got on the horn and called for artillery, I was surprised
I was very nervous. Command is not like hopping back onto a bicycle and after two and a half
years away from it, I was rusty and actually scared I'd screw up. But then I heard a guy, later
do I be identified as Lieutenant Larry Taller who worked in the S3 section, running behind me to his
defense position. And here's the quote from this guy. He's a mean son of a bitch, but he knows
what he's doing. So that's exactly what you just said. And that's exactly what affected had.
Moving through this, the men and now we're talking about this unit, the four three nine,
the men of the four three nine had no unit identity and no pride in themselves. So for all those
people that are out there that have sent me Twitter questions and hey, how do I deal with people
that are unmotivated? How do I change? That's another one. How does culture change?
He's going to go into that. As a first step toward rectifying this, I decided to call my hard
luck battalion the hard core and the troops, Rekondos. So he's renaming them. He's renaming,
renaming the battalion. And I actually did this very thing when I was a task unit commander,
when I took over a task unit, so task units in a seal team, they have a phonetic letter for their
name. So there's out task unit alpha, task unit bravo, task unit Charlie, and then you've got
the platoon underneath them. So what I did with ours is basically as soon as I took it over,
I said, hey, we were task unit bravo, B, and I said, guys, we're not task unit bravo,
we're task unit bruiser. And that was one of those things where even though at first people were
kind of, what's this all about? But then after a little while, they're like, oh, no, no,
because you're in a task unit, I'm in task unit bruiser. And it really does have a legit effect.
It's like a little psychological sense of pride. Like, we're this unique kind of almost elite
group. Just in that small little psychological way. Yeah. And yeah, I think branding a lot of
that has a lot to do with branding where you get like a company, for example. You do just little
things different and include everyone, whether it be the name, whether it be little, I mean,
sometimes they do it with like team building exercises, which I've seen a lot of ones that
that don't really, they're not very effective. But there's certain things that if those activities
can kind of invoke a sense of pride, and you guys are doing it together, that's one, that's one
that can work. And the name thing, it's crazy how that's such a big thing. When you're a little
bit, when you have a cool name, it's almost like a gang mentality. It is. I mean, he literally says
you're, they had no unit identity. So guess what? He's going to pick that identity,
call him the hard core, call him the recondo. He's going to give them that identity and give
them something to latch on to. And he goes even further. So he talks about how in the past when
he was in with another unit, they had this greeting between officers and elicid guys. And the
officer would say airborne in the, in the cigar would say all the way. So the airborne all the way.
And so now these guys are in Vietnam, and it's a little bit different. It's a little bit harder.
So now, this is going back to the book. When a soldier saluted an officer, he said hard core recondo
was sir. And when the officer responded, it was with a heartfelt, no fucking slack. And I mean,
it doesn't get any better than that. And as a matter of fact, when this is one of the most
fired up things, when I, when I retired from the SEAL teams, the guys that ran the land warfare
training. So like the most miserable hard training out in the Imperial Valley of California, where
it's 120 degrees and you're humping through the desert and it's just completely hard core.
And we would, I mean, the training was miserable and tough and realistic and bad ass. And when I left,
those guys from the land warfare group gave me a shotgun. And on the shotgun was engraved, no fucking slack.
So, so you picture these guys walking around. It's like you just said, you're talking about
unit identity and they give them this name. But now they're walking on it every time they see each other.
They're saying hardcore recondo, no fucking slack. And I don't care, that's a mantra.
You know, that becomes a mantra, that becomes a what you say. And that doesn't take much for what
you say to start to become what you believe. And so I love that. I love and when we work with
companies, we, you know, depending on how long we're working with them for, we'll sit down and
we'll have them come up with a mission statement. Yeah. And then we'll come up with some kind of a
mantra. And I'll tell them this story about no fucking slack. And you know, like, what is going to
make you? What is going to make you think that way? Because that's what I used to say at land warfare.
You know, when I was running land warfare training, you know, hey, should we give these guys a little
extra time? Should we give them that you should we move the target a little bit closer to the insert point?
Are these, can we make this a little bit easier for them? And I'd say, no fucking slack.
And the reason was, I wanted these guys to be ready. I wanted everyone of those seals that was
going to Iraq and Afghanistan to be ready for anything to be ready. I wanted the training to be
harder than real combat. That was the goal. And then these these little mantras and all these things
that kind of gives everyone a sense of pride in going through that hard training to, to ultimately
result in being ready. Right. So for them to, to take pride and enjoy it in that hard training,
because of these little tiny things, that makes it just that much more effective, you know, the
whole situation. It's, it's completely true. There's another piece here. Simon Tannies
are going back to the book. Simon Tannies, I started establishing standard operating procedures
that would not only keep the troops alive, but also give them for the first time, the feeling
they were in charge of the situation, not at mercy of the VC or in cityous booby traps. So
think about that, you know, this, this idea that you're on the defense all the time,
and you're constantly like waiting to get blown up or waiting to get more good,
or waiting to get a take a sniper around. That's a horrible, horrible feeling. Being on the receiving
end of that stuff is horrible because you don't have control over it. So then they started
slowly putting things together to to go on the offensive. So standard operating procedures included
such things as every officer having to read Mowl's little red book. So this was kind of the
communist way, and he wanted all the officers to know and understand that, because how can you be
an enemy if you don't know what they're thinking? That was another just classic move. You've got to
think like the enemy. I got a couple more things to pull out here. People talking about
Karen for your guys, and here's another good, you know, I, this is going back to the book. I wasn't
going to lose any legs for a couple of VC. I was into fighting hard, but not the expense of
bleeding troops. The fact that I, that I walked with the platoons put me in the good graces and
a lot of men. But my stock, he rose even faster when they got word, when word got around that I
wasn't a butcher. So even though he was hardcore and he was saying no fucking slack, what he talks
about earlier in that paragraph is if he found one of the young officers was doing something that
was careless, that could put guys at risk of running into the booby traps or and that what that
didn't have a good return, he'd fire that guy. He would literally just fire the guy. And that
the end. So the guy's realized, okay, this guy's hardcore, but guess what, he cares about us. And that,
that is huge. And another piece, this is kind of going back to what we just said.
All the 439 really needed, had really needed. Was a good kick in the ass, which included creating
or bringing in leaders who cared for their men and giving the men some sense of real purpose.
Wow. Wow. You know, and what we call that in with Lafayne, I talk about in the book,
it's the why, why are we here? And you would be surprised. It happens with companies. It happens with
families. It happens in the military. It happens with teams. They don't understand why they're doing
what they're doing. They're just doing it as a task, as a robot. And you can't treat people like
robot. People have to have some kind of long-term goal. They have to have an understanding of why they're
doing what they're doing. So that's like 99% of my answers. When somebody says, hey, I've got this
problem with these people. Don't want to follow this rule. They don't want to do this safety
task or safety procedure. I can't get my guys to do the safety procedure. And I'm like,
what do they understand? Why they're doing it? What do you mean? Do they understand why they
are doing it? Do they understand why they are supposed to clip in at the end top of the tower
that they're climbing? Do they understand why? Do they understand the implications? If they fall,
do they understand the implications? Not just to them, but to their family. Are they thinking about
the implications to their job? Or they think about the implications to the company? And then
other people's jobs. You put all those why? Here's why you're clip it into that tower. Because if
you fall, you can't pay your mortgage. Your kids, you know, can't eat. Then on top of that,
we have to shut down the tower for a week. We're going to lose money. We're going to lose jobs.
And when you think about why, then all of a sudden, they're going to go, okay, I guess I'll clip in.
It's one of those things. So that idea of understanding why is just extremely important.
To close out this section on about face, which again, depending on, I don't know, this
maybe, maybe this was just an exercise in my own. In my own, what is it? Was that word selfishness?
Take the elbow talk about this with people and have them here. And for me to go through this book,
again, again, I learned every time I read it, but to kind of wrap it up. So he goes on and they go on.
This is a long chapter and they go on to talk about all these different things that they did.
And they did turn the fight and they did start to kill the enemy and they did start to spare their own guys.
And they, they started fighting the gorillas like they were gorillas. So he really implemented all those things that they had talked about.
So now he's getting ready to leave. And he says,
the hardcore battalion proved to me everything I'd ruminated on throughout the two years that went before.
All those ideas and theories on how to fight the G and the G is gorillas.
If there was satisfaction in that, there was much less in the fact that my success didn't make
a dent in the way the war was prosecuted. So even though he did a great job and it really changed their
battlefield for him, other people didn't say, oh, I see what they're doing. I'm going to do that too.
Ironically, what did was the debacle of hamburger here? Hill, where screaming eagle,
general Melvin Zace ordered 11 assaults up an extremely well fortified totally useless piece of real estate.
As if he thought, as if he thought he was in Korea or storming crowd positions at Normandy.
Almost 400 American men, Dan, or wounded later, the 101 unit was King of the Mountain.
But within a week, the objective was abandoned.
So I don't know if you've ever heard this, but hamburger Hill is a huge deal.
Lost 400 guys wounded or dead held it for a week and then left.
The ensuing horrified up roar among American people and in Washington,
made sure hamburger Hill was the last huge and costly battle fought by American troops in Vietnam.
So I guess if no one learned how to fight the war for me and the men of the hardcore,
at least from general Zace, they finally learned how not to.
But we were already four years into the war and they were almost four more to go.
Tough. So that's about face for you. That is a heavy book, figuratively, and literally.
And again, depending on what people thought of that, maybe we'll come back to it and talk about it again.
In the future.
That book and those experiences are kind of where this comes from.
This mindset and the attitude that I have. How much of it do you think?
I don't. I couldn't sit here and put a percent of Jonathan.
From a leadership, from a combat leadership perspective, it is a pretty significant amount.
You know, it's probably in the 20 or 30 percent of confirming things that I believed,
learning new things, seeing things and reading about them and then watching them happen and
understanding them. So that it definitely is a significant portion of some kind.
Yeah. Meanwhile, on the internet. On the interwebs, we got a bunch of great questions.
I mean, we got hundreds of great questions. And obviously, we can't answer them all.
So some of them, we kind of compiled together. Some of them, we pulled out. And you know what I did not do.
Because I did not put the names of the people that submitted them. So next time, I will do that.
I think we got one person that recommended that. So I apologize for everyone out there on Twitter
and Facebook that submitted questions. And we used them next time. I'll try and get your name in there.
So you'll know that I am talking to you. But we've got some great feedback and comments and all that.
So let's dive into some of these. Okay. So mental toughness. We're going back to this. I think this is
important mental toughness. Because I think this is one of those things. That's a constant endeavor for
I would argue for everybody. I would agree. In one way or another. And this question
is really appropriate. Mental toughness is not just one thing. Some people are tough in the gym or in
fights, but week when their wife leaves them. For example, do you agree with that? And this guy,
and again, I wish I had whoever you are, I apologize because he actually makes a statement.
This is a statement. Mental toughness is not one thing. And then he quantifies that statement by
saying some people are tough in the gym or in fights, but week when their lives, when their wives
leaves them, he says, do you agree? Well, I agree 100%. And this opens up a whole spectrum of reality.
And that is that what is it that crushes a person? Because it's different for everybody.
Everybody has this thing, this weakness that maybe it never gets uncovered. Maybe it does.
And the fact that he's talking about fighters and saying that people are tough in the gym,
they're tough in fights, but they have some weakness that can crush them. I think we've seen
that plenty. I mean, just famous people, famous fighters that this has happened to, John Bones Jones.
I mean, obviously the guy's an animal in fights. He's an animal training in the gym,
but he has some mental weaknesses that he needs to overcome. And that hopefully he will be able to,
so he can reach his full potential. And I hope he does, but he's lucky he's got a good
support base around him and he's got money to try and solve these problems. Because there's a lot of
people that end up with those weaknesses or have those weaknesses and ends up crushing them. And that's scary.
And I'll tell you what the scariest thing is. And I think this is a great lesson. And it's something
that I learned over and over again. And I don't know when it exactly solidified in my brain,
but it's so disturbing and bizarre when you see somebody that you care about.
And you watch them go down the spiral. And it's so obvious what they have to do to stop it,
to stop the downward spiral. It's like, oh, uh, get rid of that girl or get stop using that drug
or stop drinking or do whatever the case may be, whatever that thing that's got them.
And you're clearly telling them to stop it. And they don't. Yeah, because, I mean, and I think I,
I think I know what your point is going to be here. But you say it's clearly obvious.
It's clearly obvious kind of a way to put it in, it's clearly obvious on paper. Where you could
point it out in that person, the person you care about, he's you, whatever. They would probably agree with you.
And you said, oh, is this holding you back, you think, or is this jamming you up? And they'd probably say,
yeah, but to be like, oh, just simply let it go, let's say it was a girl. Let's say, I don't know.
Yeah, oh, good girl. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and you're like, yeah, the girl's jamming me up.
Yeah, generally I let's be fair or like, or a guy. Um, and you know, it's as simple as that, get rid of the girl.
But I think in everybody's different, there's a certain need that someone has an inherent need
that that that girl is fulfilling. And that need is big. No matter how deep down it is,
it's a big need. Obviously, that they're letting that need get fulfilled in, at the expense of
their goals, their training, or whatever. So it's not that easy. It's obvious, sure.
But it's just not that easy to be the oldest, just get rid of the girl. I didn't say it was easy.
Right. But I know you've seen this. I think we've all seen this where you're looking at a
situation with someone that you truly cared about and you want to help them and you could write
down in two sentences. What they have to do to completely resurrect and change their life.
And it's as easy as getting rid of a girl or a guy that's in their life that's a disaster,
or it's as easy as stopping the use of drugs now called or it's as easy as cutting sugar out of
your diet because you're sick from it. Or it's as easy as working out a certain methodology
to get you through this situation. So it's it's horrible. And it's one of those things. That's it for
me. It's taught me to again, I talk about detachment, I want detached from myself to make sure I'm not
that guy that doesn't have some issue that's holding me back and like I could be doing better
if I would get if I would take that input from other people or even better off if I could detach and
see that input myself and self correct. Yeah. But when you can see it in someone else,
that's really what you what the dynamics of that relationship is. Meaning let's say you know your
friend has something a girl. For example holding him back. It's easy for you to say, oh just do this.
Here's the two sentences. It's like going to do get rid of the girl. Be happy. That's it. It's easy
because you are detached. Yeah. Absolutely. So the hard part is for him to actually detach. But if
he can detach, look in, he'd be essentially in the same position as you and probably be able to
at least be on his way to do it. Exactly. It's weird though. And that's why I say people are crazy.
Like we do crazy things. We make big mistakes. We get emotional. We do things that are crazy. Human beings
do it. And that's very, very difficult to deal with. And it's really, it can be very sad to see.
You know, I've seen people with great unbelievable potential that have for all practical purposes
cast it away for some ridiculous reason that again, if they would have followed two bullet points
on a piece of paper that said, get rid of this girl and stop using this drug. Their life would be
different. And you just, you can't help them. Yeah. And obviously, you know, getting rid of a girl,
that's clearly just an example. It's not, we're not saying girls. You need sort of a problem.
But we've seen the same thing with girls and guys. Right. Girls that had date this guy. That's a
disaster that drags me down and whatever. Yeah. And it could be either one. We should just say
relationships and be in fair. Yeah. Yeah. Toxic relationship. Yeah. Toxic relationship.
I don't, I mean, you use the word ridiculous, which, you know, cool. But I don't think it is
really ridiculous because if you kind of, if you break it down, I think like I said,
they have a certain need that isn't obvious to everyone, you know, everyone, I said,
even to them, it might not be obvious. But they have a need in there that this
toxic relationship is fulfilling. It's jamming up a bunch of other things in their life for
their goals. But it is fulfilling this little thing that they need. Well, okay, you can say that.
That's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that makes sense. I'm not gonna argue with you. That's,
that's the, that's the route of the problem though. Right. But if, if that need is, if, basically,
the, the, the sum of that need or the, the size of that size bigger than the need of them,
achieving those goals. Which may seem weird because it's like, well, that teeny tiny need to be
loved or accepted is bigger than being a champion of the world. It seems weird. But from an
individual standpoint on how they feel on the inside that need in a lot of times is bigger. Yeah.
And that's what's crazy, which is what we said people are crazy because they made that determination.
Yeah. And you can't help them. That's the piece. You cannot help them. Yeah.
And you can try. You can paint it out for them. You can tell them a thousand times, a thousand
different ways. Yeah. I think you, yeah. I think there are ways to help, obviously, I think it's like
through like a therapy type of situation, not necessarily like a professional therapy maybe,
but not necessarily or something really impactful. Oh, yeah. I always hear, you know, you always
hear it's got to be the rock bottom. The person's got to hit rock bottom somehow. And then they
realize, oh, okay, I've destroyed my life. Now I'll start moving again. You just wish you could help
them before they hit rock bottom. I was talking about this today with, uh, with great hitting rock bottom.
And the reason that it's, tip it and I don't, I'll just use word easier. It's easier to move
forward when you hit rock bottom is because you're not, you can't go any further deeper, but what
that I mean, that sounds obvious, but what that means is you're here right at the bottom. If
below here is unacceptable, it's death, or it's, you know, on a jail, I don't know, whatever, whatever
you rock bottom is. So you can never justify it. Oh, I've been doing it this way and I'm still here.
You can never make that justification at rock bottom because I've been doing it this way and I'm here.
That's unacceptable. You're rock bottom. But let's say you're not at rock bottom, but you're pretty
junk. You're not doing good. But you're making it, you're handling it. Sure, you're job sucks.
But I'm still here. You know, I still got my car. Yeah, so they don't want to justify it. Yes,
yeah, one thing. Okay, look, I need to make an improvement. I'm going to start. I'm going to start
on Monday. I'm going to make an improvement. So they start on Monday. Okay, it goes good Tuesday.
Some temptation comes and whatever the drugs are drinking, whatever. When they're kind of exhausted
from putting in that effort to change and it's like, okay, I'll just have one beer. Okay, I'll just
start drinking again because really, I'm cool with it. You know, I made it. It's not all that bad.
They've accepted their station in life. Right. And somebody accepts their station in life.
Then I guess they're not going to be motivated to do anything. Right. So, and that accepting their
station is essentially their justification for relapse. But when you're at rock bottom, you can't do that.
So, I mean, obviously, people's rock bottom are different. Like I said, but that's the reason
that it's that it's easier. I know it sounds crazy, but it's easier to move forward when you're at rock bottom.
It's tough stuff. So, yeah, mental toughness. Yeah, like how you said it is, it's different for
everyone and you can be meant. It's not across the board thing. You're just mentally tough.
Yeah. But to tie this back into mental toughness is again, go back to detachment. You know,
I'm glad we're most of the people listening this aren't dealing with a situation where they've
got some grievous scenario going on. And their life is on a downward spiral. Hopefully,
we're downward spiral is that you slept in until five, third, you know, that's that's the type
of thing where you want to catch yourself. Like we talked about earlier, you want to get those
little disciplines in place and build upon those and become better. Yeah. Stay out of them.
Never mind the rock bottom. Let's get to the top of this bad boy. That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, and with that, I think this might be kind of obvious, but it's important to recognize what
elements or what aspects of your life that you are not quite as tough, mentally at. You know,
like you're, you know, if you have a weakness for beer and alcohol, then recognize that or
have a weakness for giving up when I start to get tired and training or something like that,
recognize that. Yeah. And here's a quick story for you. It's important story.
Echo Trials with the story. Christmas Eve. I went to the store just for real quick and it was real
crowded that supermarket. So I go and I get two 12 fats a beer and
some tomatoes and I have a cart. Not or I have a basket and not a cart. So I'm carrying it.
So all the lines are long. So I'm standing in one of the lines and I'm holding the basket with
a 12 back of beer in one hand with the tomatoes and the other 12 back of beer in the other hand.
So it's not like terribly heavy, but it can get heavy after a little while. So the lines
were a long. So I'm going to be in that line for a while. So after all, you know, you show this
start getting tired and right then I recognize, okay, this can be a small exercise and mental
toughness. Just a small one. Not a, you know, not a marathon and nothing like that, but you know what I'm
going to do? I'm just going to hold these until until I put them on the thing, I'm not going to put
them down because right now I kind of want to put them down. So what I did is I made it consciously made it
in exercise. So I held them and every little thing that would happen, this guy's not taking
or this guy's not being as quick as he should be. Boom that, that's another element added to the
mental toughness exercise. No, he's going to write a check. Yeah. So I did it. I totally did it.
It took maybe I would say 10 minutes. We could 10 minutes of just holding it, you know.
So I put my, my stuff on the, on the little carousel, whatever to get it checked out. And I remember
thinking, okay, that's one little exercise in mental toughness, a little workout mental toughness done.
Now, I realize as a demonstration of mental toughness, that's quite lame.
But as far as recognizing a potential situation where you could be mentally weak, using it as an
exercise to be to help with mental toughness as a concept, that's an important element.
And you know what I like the best about that whole story was the fact that you had to mentally
detach yourself and recognize because that's the true exercise in my mind is having the ability
to be outside yourself and look at yourself and say you're being weak right now or here's
an opportunity. That's real triumph on a small scale. Yeah. And it, it, it's super working to me.
Yeah. But if you can just start thinking to yourself that way, that small little exercise
can turn into a little bit bigger exercise and next thing you know, you're in a detrimental
situation, recognizing, hey, if I can practice some toughness right now where, you know, a month ago,
two months ago, I would have straight up gave up. But let me use this as yet another exercise.
And it's a big detrimental situation. We're being a lucky, mentally tough.
I like it. At least on your way. Yeah. Approved. Sure.
Barely approved. But approved nonetheless.
Yes. Next question. Okay. Okay. Next question is my son who's seven, seven years old,
and I want to get into jujitsu. What lessons has it taught you in life?
Well, you know, I talk about jujitsu all the time because I do think it's a great metaphor for
life. Some of the things that it teaches you without a doubt is it teaches you humility.
Because it's not going to teach you humility by telling you, hey, be humble, be humble. It's
going to teach you humility because you are going to get submitted and be forced to surrender
to people that are smaller than you, that are weaker than you, that aren't as good as athletes as you.
And that's going to happen almost a daily basis when you first start out. So there's no doubt about that.
It's going to teach you about respect. And I had a buddy in the Marine Corps,
great dude, a big H. I know you're out there somewhere. And he was a badass. He looked like a super hero,
so super strong. And he grew up in Texas. He was some kind of a gang member in Texas,
had a rough childhood. He was used a badass, scary dude, super nice, but but definitely could bring
it. And when he started training, after like a month, you know, I said, you know, what do you
think of jujitsu? And he said, you know, I used to think I was badass. And now I don't want to mess
with anybody because I don't know if they've been training for three months. And if they have been,
I'm in trouble. So you definitely will learn respect from jujitsu.
Discipline, you know, we were just kind of talking earlier. And I was talking about training today
and how I just did not feel like training today. It was all beat up, it was tired of sore.
And there's only one thing that got beyond the mat. And that's just having the discipline to
get on there and know that I needed to train. So there's nobody out of care who you are that feels
like training every single day, seven days a week. But if you want to get better and you want to reach
the goal, then you have to do it. And so it teaches you about discipline. And I would say
from a mental perspective, one of the coolest things that jujitsu teaches you is it teaches you
that maneuver and that tactics and that brains, the those things, Trump strength and Trump meeting
force on force. And I talk about this all the time in psychological situations. And it's too
bad. I wish everybody in the world train jujitsu because you have all these metaphors that you can tell
them. So it's great when I have a client that actually trains jujitsu because then I can or
understand them and they're watching martial arts or watches UFC because then you can use these examples.
But the classic case in the mental confrontation is people have a tendency to want to go
fist on fist. And if you say one thing, if you say method A, I say method B and we'll just
gonna bang those two methods together and see who a lot of times it's see who has more rank.
And you know what, you know what echo, I'm in charge so we're going with method B. Well now you're
gonna do what I say, but you're not gonna do it willingly, you're gonna sabotage it, whatever the case
may be. That's not jujitsu. Jujitsu is using maneuver and setting people up and being more crafty.
That's what jujitsu is and that's how you win and that's how you win not just on the mat, not just
but in life as well. And it's the same thing on the battlefield. You know, we have a little saying
in combat, he who flanks first wins, meaning the person that gets around to the side and attacks
from an unexpected direction is going to win. And it's the same thing in mentally in jujitsu and
it's the same thing in mental confrontations with people. It's who is going to maneuver.
And it's always this indirect approach. That's the key phrase that I use when I'm dealing with someone
that's not a jujitsu person. And I'm talking about how do they deal with their boss that
does this or they're subordinate that has a big head or whatever. I tell them, listen,
you need to use an indirect approach because the direct approach is not going to get through to this
person. I was doing this from executive coaching the other day and had this guy, he explained the
personality of this guy that worked for him and the guy that worked for him had been moved underneath
him in a reorganization and it was one of those guys. He's a senior guy who he should have been
a peer but now all of a sudden he's reporting to him and he's been in the business for 32 years
and he knows stuff better than I do. And then the guy says to me, so I've brought the guy in and
I've told him I'm going to coach him and this is what I'm going to help him with and I said, okay.
You are no way is this guy going to accept that that you're going to coach him. It's
is not in his personality. You can't go whereas this guy that I was talking to, calling Mike, I
said Mike, you want to be coached. You want to be helped. Do you have an open mind? If I came to
you and said, hey, I want to coach you, be like, that's great. This guy is the complete opposite.
If I go to him and say, hey, I'm going to coach you, he's going to say, I don't need to coach him.
Right. And even if I outrank him and I say, no, I'm going to coach you. He's going to do it
reluctantly and he's going to sabotage it and he's never going to put me effort into it and he's going
to actually do the opposite to prove you wrong. Right. Yeah. He's going to secure it. That's the direct
approach. Do you get to is the indirect approach? So what you do with this guy when you're going to
coach him, as you say, listen, you know what I need is you're so much more experienced in this. I need
some help running the organization. Can you come and help me get things in order and give me a hand
straightening things out and also can you fill me in on what we can improve inside of our department.
And when when you're doing that, now all of a sudden he's going to tell me what all the problems are
and now I can just, strictly and indirectly coach him on how we're going to fix those problems.
That's jujitsu and that's one of the lessons you learned from it. Yeah. And not to mention the
sort of more obvious things where it's a great workout, you get kind of this.
Man actually just be all people. They have a sort of aggression kind of built into them. And it's
a spectrum. Some people more than others. You can engage. I understand what you're trying to tell
me. Yeah. You can engage in jujitsu and be a pretty accurate simulation of whether it be a fight
or any kind of aggressive combat situation. And it's still be safe and doable where you can do it
again and again. You can go, you know, the next day. If you go spar boxing, you can't really do it every day.
And you can go all out. If you go all out and do it every day, you can get messed up. Yeah.
And you can do that. And so you get that satisfaction. When you leave and it's kind of strange
because when you get the satisfaction from that, you kind of want to do it some more. You know,
so most people when you talk to people who have been doing it for over a year, talk to everyone,
anyone you know that has been doing it more than one year, I would say my argument would be 85
percent or more. We'll tell you that at some point they were addicted to it. That they would
go to sleep at night and they'd be thinking about a move or something like that. And to go along with
the things that you just the obvious things because you're right, there's some obvious things. The
the workout, it's a great workout. You get more in tune with your own body. You learn how to
hand to yourself in a real fight. And and it does give you absolutely gives you confidence and confidence
that you can handle situation, confidence that that's coupled with the respect that you look at
everyone and say, hey, you know what, this guy might be able to, this guy might know more than I do,
so I'm going to respect him. But at the same time, you know that, hey, I'm going to be able to at
least know what I'm doing very confidently. So it helps out across the board and it's definitely a
great sports. So with the new year approaching, what have you changed your mind about?
Yeah, as far as 2015, well, the biggest thing that's been a radical change because I'm
I always talk about how I have this big open mind and all that. But the fact of the matter is,
I'm very set in my ways and I kind of follow patterns and I believe things and my beliefs are
open for for changing, but a lot of times they just don't get changed. Okay, so one thing that's
been radically different about me in 2015 and it's been kind of a bizarre ride is the fact that I am now
out there in the world. And you know, people, obviously when I made the decision with life that we
were going to write this book, we knew that we were going to be out there and people were going
to know us. Now the book has been more successful than, you know, it's kind of been the max level of
success that I thought it could achieve. You know, I thought there was a spectrum and we definitely
achieved a great success and we're super happy about that. But that means we're even more out there
than we thought we're going to be. Then on top of that, there's been this whole
internet phenomenon of going on the Tim Ferriss show with Tim and going on the Joe Rogan Show with Joe
and then doing this podcast and being on Twitter and all these things, being on Facebook. I mean,
I did literally did not have a Facebook account, literally did not have a Twitter account, never been
on and before. And then now I have, you know, I'm on it and in it and communicating with people.
And I think that's, you know, people would tell me like, hey, social media is cool. You can link
up with other people. And I was definitely, I didn't want to link up with other people. I didn't want
to have my friends and I didn't really want to make meet other people. But now that I'm there,
it's awesome. Honestly, it's awesome to have people all over the world. I have people all over
the world, especially because you know, I do the thing in the morning with my watch and
have four, four, 30 in the morning. I take a picture of my watch and I post it on Twitter. And
I get those because other people do it. And now my Twitter is filled with people from every time zone
throughout the day that wake up at 430 in the morning and they get their workout on. And that's
that's cool, man. That's very cool to see that there's other people in the world that have the same
kind of mentality that want to be better, that want to improve, that want to do their best.
And I think that's, uh, I think that's been pretty cool to see. And it's also been,
it's, it's been, honestly, it almost makes me feel like I'm in a leadership position in a way.
Again, because I've got like people that are saying, hey, thanks for putting this out there
and thanks. And it makes you feel just like just like being in a leader combat leadership position,
where you feel humbled by these guys that are doing so well. Well, I feel the same way with these
people. I'm humbled by the fact that these people are out there and they're communicating with me
and talking to me and saying, I inspire them. And I always write back, man, you inspire me.
But you know, that inspires me that you're out, you know, kicking ass. And there's these, you know,
I always talk about like the single moms, the single dads that are out there, they're getting
up earlier than me and they're going to work. Yeah. You know, and that's job number one. And they're
getting home late. So that's, that's inspiring to me. And I think it's been a pretty cool ride so far.
Any other weird thing is I have no idea where the ride is going. I do. I do not know.
And I'm all about plans and I'm a little bit of a control freak, but just to be out there and
on this roller coaster, did you have no idea where it's going? So that's, that's pretty entertaining too.
Yeah, to to connect with them with people who have the same interests in you and not all interests
obviously, but just some of the same interests as you, it is kind of refreshing because if you go
just through your day-to-day life, right? And someone as extreme as you are, it's going to be hard
to find someone to relate to in specific ways or even in a general way. It's going to be hard
for someone like you. Right. So when you get these little tidbits of people doing the same thing
as you and it's like, dang, I'm relating to these people just in that small little way every day,
or however often you check your Twitter, you know, and it's kind of refreshing and it reminds
you that there are people like that out there, you know, who want to wake up early and be disciplined
and work hard and then face the day and get stuff done or whatever. And you might not see that
in your day-to-day life outside of the internet, like in your real life. You might not see that.
So you might have this feeling of man. You might have the only one who's trying to get this stuff done,
you know, almost like that kind of thought. Right. And I'm definitely not. Yeah.
And it's, and you're right. It is, it is reassuring. Yeah. And it's cool to communicate with
these people that are coming up. Got a bunch of firemen and police officers that are on there
that are fired up every day, bunch of obviously a bunch of former military people.
But then, you know, because I have kind of a weird background, I get these crazy old hardcore punk
rock kids and you know, they're communicating with me and it's just, it's very interesting.
Yeah. Very interesting. It's been an interesting ride. Like I'm curious to see where it all ends up.
Yeah. Yeah. I do think that the more experience you have with people, the more
good stuff you can learn that that people have in them. Regardless of stuff you might not agree
with them. Yeah. But if you can find have more experiences with more people in whatever way,
you'll be more informed about this. And this, this really, the fear or the
rejection I had of social media was based on what I talked about earlier with that Tom Wolf
book, The Electric Cool A Dacet Test. Me, me, me, me. And I always felt that social media was me,
me, here's a picture of me, here's me doing this, here's my food and this is my car and this is
me, me, me and it just felt so disturbing. And but now I, like you're saying, I realize that
this, this social media, at least the way that I'm involved in it right now, it's not about me.
It's about we. And there's a group of people that have the similar mindset and some of them are
more into it, some of them aren't, but they're there. And they communicate with me and it's not me,
it's we. And I think that's, that's pretty cool. Yeah, for sure. Well, it is everything. It's a
spectrum, but I think I think we all feel that even if we're people who are really into the internet,
really into Facebook, really into Twitter and Instagram, if people overdo it, me, me, here's a
selfie of me in front of the mirror. If you see 10 pictures of them taking a picture of them,
self in front of the mirror, that's a me, me, me, me, you're looking for sure. But they're just on that
side of the spectrum. That's all. There's all kinds of different people. And I think the majority
people are in that we, we category. Yeah. Sure, it's something about me, but there is no we without
me too. Yeah. No, it's cool. I don't like people that send me stuff on Twitter. I get pictures every
day of people's watches. I get pictures of their jump rope or their kettlebell. Like no one said,
I don't know what any of these people look like, which I guess is kind of bizarre. And, but that's
you're right. They're not about me, me, me, they're about we and we're like having a little,
little group, little gang. You don't get after it. Yeah, I sent you a picture of me and it wasn't
for 30, it was more like noon. It's for 30 minutes after it. Actually, it was like two p.a.
So, you're sleeping next question. You're sleeping routine. You get less than eight hours sleep.
Yes. From what I know. Okay. So, you're sleeping routine. How many hours sleep do you get? And what
are the techniques you used to get to sleep if you're not tired? Do you know, do you
take naps? Do that? Does that work? Okay. So, I generally sleep. I try and sleep at least five,
five and a half or six hours a night. It generally ends up being somewhere between five and five
and a half. Generally, I feel not good if I sleep for, you know, seven hours. I don't feel good.
I feel groggy. I don't know why that is. That's the way it is though. I feel good. And sometimes,
I feel better when I slept four point five hours. Otherwise, known as four and a half hours.
So, so, so there's no doubt that I don't need a ton of sleep. That being said, sometimes,
I do feel tired. Sometimes, you know, come the afternoon, especially if I have to do something
boring or tedious. And that's when I'll feel really legitimately tired. If I'm uping moving,
I don't need to sleep. I actually don't need to sleep. Like, I can go long periods of times without
sleeping. If there's something actively engaging my mind, especially something that's got to be
partially physical. You know, because you sit now and reading a book when you're tired is tough. So,
I do and power naps are great. And this is something that I learned part of it in high school
and part of it in basic seal training. When I was in high school, my anatomy and physiology teacher,
I used to go and walk by his room at lunchtime and he'd be in there with his feet up on the desk
in like his chair on low. And he'd just be in there sitting, you know, doing a little bit of work.
And one day I said, hey, you know, you look kind of relaxed in there and he said, hey,
this is a technique and I said, what do you mean? He said, put when you when you rest, elevate your
feet above your heart. Because your veins are stressed out, you know, the one way valve isn't
your veins. You've got blood pulled up in areas in your feet. You want to get that stuff out of there.
So elevate your feet above your heart. And I was like, well, that makes sense. Then in seal training,
you'd come back from, let's say, breakfast in the morning or lunch. And you get back to the barracks.
You have to grab gear to get ready for whatever the next evolution was going to be. Well,
they'd give you time to grab the gear, but they'd also give you time to, you know, use the bath
for a mortal or whatever. And it would literally be, they'd say, all right, we got to be back out
her in eight minutes. Well, it took you one minute to get your gear down. So if I didn't have to go
the bathroom, I would go in my room. I would lay down on the floor. I'd put my feet up on the bed.
And I would set my alarm clock for six minutes. And I would get a power nap and you'd fall sleep almost
immediately because you're so tired. So you'd just fall sleep six minutes later, boom, you wake up
and you feel refreshed and you feel refreshed and you feel refreshed. If you sleep for longer than that,
sometimes you start to feel groggy again. So you got to be careful that you don't sleep for too long,
but yeah, try the elevated feet above the heart eight minute power nap when you're feeling tired
and it'll make you feel better. You got to set your alarm clock so you don't, so that eight minutes
doesn't turn into two. And that's it, you know, I look, I know and probably I know I should
probably sleep more and I would like to do that. I'll try and do that sometimes.
But also my mind, it's not like a big choice that I'm making. You know, when I'm thinking about
something, it cannot be stopped. It cannot be stopped. When I'm thinking about something, it just goes.
And in my mind, it feels like I'm going down various tunnels of thought. That's literally what
it feels like I'm going down these various tunnels of thought and one leads to another. I'm taking
a left turn, right turn, I'm getting all these ideas and I can't sleep. Yeah. So,
you know. Yeah, and I would imagine that a lot of people are like that where if they have a lot
going on in their life, you know, where they can't get these certain thoughts out of the head,
go to bed. You know, sometimes you're just excited about something and you can't stop thinking
about it and you know, whatever. But if that's a problem, if you get in the way you're sleeping
at its jam and you up the next day, then I'm sure you can, you know, I'm sure meditation can kind
of help is from what I hear about meditation. Yeah, maybe I don't know. But I will say this.
If you want to go to bed earlier, you have to get up earlier. Like it doesn't work in reverse.
You can't just force yourself to go to sleep at night. You have to just wake up earlier and be
more tired at the end of the day. Yeah. And I love the feeling of when I'm so tired that my
my head hits the pillow and I fall asleep immediately. I love that feeling. Yeah. Just exhaustion.
That's what I'm going for every day. See if I can just burn it out and just be so tired at the end of the day.
So that's my sleep routine. Probably I made all kinds of doctors and stuff. Angry at me. Sorry.
Sorry, Doc Parsley. I know. Like, I think they say that the ideal amount of sleep is
seven and a half hours or something like that. But I would imagine it'd be different from person.
Like if you're used to getting six hours sleep, doesn't your body conform? Like,
you know, your sleep cycles. I think they conform to that six hours that they have.
Doctor, Dr. Eko has spoken. Yeah. Your sleep schedule can form. I learned that from the internet.
So, in regards to, you know, achieving goals and just your pursuits in life. How do you deal
with loved ones who seem to determine or who seem determined to hold you back from their goals?
And that's, I guess that's kind of assuming that you have loved ones that are determined to hold
you back from your sleep. Yeah. That's a well, that, you know, an issue. This is one of those
questions that came in and I think you voted positive on this question was let's answer this question.
And why did you, why were you so, why did you want to answer this question? Because,
and not that I had this experience. Whoever you were that answered this question or that asked this
question, I put a line through it, Eko brought it back from the dead. So, okay, yeah.
Also, I think people deal with this. I don't, I haven't experienced this personally, but
I've seen it happen. I've seen it in other people. Yeah. Where, and I think
part of this is just my philosophy, but I think a big part of this, I believe, a big part of this
is you can apply it to every situation where it's a supposed loved one, whether it be your
family, spouse, whatever, where they will hold you back, sometimes. And
sometimes it can be because they're like jealous of you or something. So, and not necessarily
jealous, so they're going to say, you know, they're going to lie to you and say, hey, that's a bad
idea when it's really a good one or nothing like that. They'll just be focusing on the bad part
of it. So, let's say, let's say, you were unemployed for a little bit, you've been working hard
to get this job and you finally get a job. And then you're, I don't know, a parent or whatever says,
well, it's about time. You know? So, instead of dang, you know, you got this job
congratulations, they focus on the negative. And that can be discouraging on a personal level.
Like, like, there was no happiness. There was no encouragement. There was no no one saying
that no one making me feel like they were on my team and making me feel like I'm alone in doing this.
People do that. And then they do a bunch of other stuff as well, telling you, the other part
that I said, they will tell you it's a bad idea to start this new company. You know, because
they may be afraid to subconsciously or whatever that, you know, you might outshine them or you might
do something good when they haven't done anything good. So, yes. So, how do you deal with that?
And of course, a bunch of other ways that they can kind of get in the way. This probably isn't going
to be anything new, but, you know, how you surround yourself with like nine people or you surround
yourself by a certain types of people and you're going to start to become like that. So, I'm not
saying disown any family members or loved ones and not saying that, but you have to create
boundaries, specific boundaries to these people. And I know a lot of people say, well, that's my
family and I can't change that or that's my family. So, you know, and they feel like they're
under this obligation to essentially give away part of their life. But I think it should be
the opposite. I think that that's your family. So, they should understand that you're on a path
to success or you want to be on a path to success. And if they're in the way, then they're in the way
and those boundaries have to be created. If they can't handle that, then there is someone who
is against you in your path. And if you're on a successful path and someone is against you,
just that the eventuality is that they're going to be cut out of your life. And if they can
respect the boundaries and boom, you can keep women in your life and they can be them and you can
I love them for them, no matter how negative they're and you can have all that. But if you don't,
they're either going to bring you down or you got to come out, cut them out of your life. Family
or not, I think family should be held in a higher standard than your friend or whatever,
because they're your family. They're the one who should be treating you good. So, you're saying
your loved ones are treating you bad. They're the ones that should, they're the last people that
should be treating you bad. They're your loved ones. So, if they're not treating you good,
then like I said, they're the one in violation. Not you for pursuing your path and, you know,
and not giving them the attention or not going to their house every other Saturday or whatever,
like you're supposed to or whatever, it's their fault or not their fault. But it's
their responsibility to support you. And if they're not, then like anyone else who's not supporting
you, they should either have a boundary between you and them or you could have your life.
I think that's fairly sound advice. I'll tell you that a couple things from my perspective
first of all, I think that many people are negative in the world. And to coin a term that is used
very often these days. A lot of people are haters and they don't want you to succeed and we would
see that, we'd even see that in the sealed teams because sealed teams is a bunch of really
super competitive guys and everybody is competitive with each other and when someone starts doing
something well, other people get, can get jealous of them pretty quickly. And so that like I had one
friend of mine who he decided that hey he was going to try and take like a year off or get get orders
to go to an Ivy League school while he was in the sealed teams. And he had applied and actually got
into one of the best colleges in the world to go there for a year and get it to agree. And
you know, that's awesome. And he came to me and he said hey you know I've got some guys that are
telling me I shouldn't do this. It's going to be bad for my career and this is that the other thing
and I said bro. I hate to tell you this. These guys are just their haters. They're just jealous.
The fact that you thought of this, the fact that you went on a limb, the fact that you made this
happen, the fact that you put in an application, the fact that you took the test to get into the school.
And now you're going to go there. You're going to have that on your resume, which is awesome.
You know what? Don't worry about anybody else. They're just, you know, I hate to use the word
jealous, but they're jealous. The fact that you're going to go out and make this happen, which I
thought was, I thought that was awesome. The other kind of contrary advice to what you just said
is when people aren't approving what you're doing and they're saying negative things to you
and they're not giving you the praise that you want for your what you're doing. That's your fault.
You're the one that's wanting praise. You're the one that's looking for approval. You're the one
that wants all the support. Like no, I don't expect anything from anybody because people are crazy
as I briefed earlier. And they're not going to give you support. If they're one of these people that are
negative, they're going to be negative no matter what you do. So you can't be
hung up on getting their approval and getting their support. You go forth and conquer regardless
of what people are trying to do to told you back. I was going to hold you back because you're
holding you back. How's that going to happen? It don't let them hold you back. Yeah, and I agree with
that last time where you don't let them hold you, but hold you back. But here, here's an example. Let's say
let's say you're pursuing this, I don't know, business degree or something or you're, you want to
start a T-shirt company. And it takes all this time. You got to really get your knowledge down and
you really do all your research and stuff. And it takes a lot of time. Let's say it takes 15 hours a day,
every single day while you're getting this thing up and running. But you visit your mom on the weekends
typically. And you go down there, you help her with your her yard work, just because she wants
company, you know, you do all this stuff. If you don't, she makes you feel guilty, you know, if you
can't make it or, I don't know, your sick or something, she makes you feel guilty. So you're under this
oddly, and when you grow up, it kind of gets ingrained into you, you know, like these relationships
with your loved ones. And not to mention, they're your loved ones. They're supposed to love you,
you know, and you're supposed to love them. Okay. So I think you do care about the support. I
think that's a natural part of it. If that's your loved ones, I'm not saying like your friend
or your neighbors, not recognizing my, my successor, whatever. That's your loved ones. Typically,
that's if anyone's going to praise you, you're going to hope that they're the first ones.
Yeah, but you can't be hung up on it, especially if they're crazy.
Right. And that's my point. That was your point. Yeah. So accepted. So you say,
you, that's how they can hold you back. If it's ingrained in you that you have to be there for
you mom, if she's trained you from a little kid to be to say, you owe me, I gave you love. Then
again, that's your fault. If you're letting them hold you back, then that's your fault.
Right. You take ownership of it and move on. Yes. So yeah, exactly right. And that's what I mean by
you create those barriers. Yeah. You have to suck it up or kind of mind in your life. And how
you would say about, um, about other people or other situations when you're in the job or
a leadership situation where you can make them understand, if you can make them understand what you're
doing, that's ideal where you can maintain the intensity of the, you are correct. Now you just
hit a home run because you're going back to the basic principles. You have to let people understand
why and you have to make them understand why it's going to be beneficial for them in the long run.
You know, you used to dealing with guys when we were working hard, you know, training guys for combat
or we were training for combat and you think, oh, well, you know, you got to let these guys
get home to their families. You know, they got to get home tonight. Let's let them out early and
I'd say, look, the best thing we can do for these guys to help them and their families is to train
them as hard as possible. So in the long run, when they come home from combat, that's what we're here
to do. Yeah. And everybody understands that message. So it's the same thing you're right. When you explain
to your family members, this is why I'm doing what I'm doing. This is how it's going to benefit
me, which will thereby benefit you, which will thereby benefit our whole family. Yes, that is correct.
Explain the why. What up?
Next question. What is the, what are the bullet points and keys to success for motivating
and engaging your team of leaders? Well, first of all, we just kind of covered that when we talked
with about about face for a solid hour, which is, which is one of the questions here. I actually
answered this question last time. So this is a question that you hear all the time. Is, you know,
what kind of you to motivate these guys? How can we get them engaged? And first of all, I want to say that
leadership, although there are basic principles, fundamental principles that can be used,
it is not something that can be bulletized. It is like trying to bulletize how you play guitar,
or trying to bulletize how you play the violin. It is an art. It is a practice. And there are
many, many different ways to manipulate that instrument, to make it make the noise that you want
to make. And that's what leadership is. Leadership is not follow these four steps and you will
become a good leader. It doesn't work that way. It is an art. Now, again, just like there's principles
behind music, there's principles behind leadership and that fundamental principles stay the same.
But how you engage with those and the nuances involved in executing those principles is what makes
leadership so challenging. Which again, is why we have a book, which is why we have a business,
which is why there's leadership schools around the world because it is a very challenging thing to do.
So, you know, the bullets are, I almost, after saying that, you know, what are the bullets? Well,
you got to build relationships. You got to listen to people. You got to give respect. You got to
the main thing we talked about tonight with about face. You got to answer that. Why? People
got to understand why you're doing what you're doing. And understand what their perspective is.
So, you got to communicate with them. It's all those things. But I think it's important to realize
that leadership is a learning, a constant learning process. It's a nuanced tool. There aren't any
bulletized lists that are going to make you into a great leader tomorrow. What there are are
principles that you can learn and understand and interpret and apply in different ways with different
amplitudes at different times with different personalities. It's mayhem. It's mayhem. That's what makes
it so challenging and so fun. And I, well, that's what makes me love to talk about leadership. Because
there's, it's an infinitely complex thing on in so many different ways. But all that being said,
it is something that does follow core principles. And so, learn those core principles. No,
those core principles. And that's what will make you good leader. But don't look for a quick solution.
Look for a comprehensive, a comprehensive mass of knowledge and technique and understanding
that will make you a better leader. In your opinion, what are the best tactics in order to
remain focused? Okay. This is individual for me because I know different people have different techniques.
If you're, if you're using whatever techniques you have and they're not working well,
then they're not working. So, try mine. So, my, no, when I have to do something focused,
no music, no video, no TV playing in the background, none of that. No phone,
turn that off and get focused on the task at hand. So, what are you going to do to focus on the task
at hand? You have to pre-determine. There's a thing we used to use in the seal-teams. It's called
task-condition standard. Here's the task. Here's the conditions that are involved in the task.
And here's the standards that you have to complete the task, too. So, I like to think of when
I have to focus on something, I set up my own task conditions and standards for it. And a good
example for me was writing our book. When we were writing extreme ownership, lay for wrote about
half of it, I wrote about half of it. We actually wrote a little bit more of half of each because we
both wrote chapters that aren't in there. But it was a lot of writing to do. And how do you do that?
How did I do it? I'll tell you. I set the task conditions and standards for what I need to do.
For me, it was what I had to do. The task was to write. The condition was I was trying to write
the draft. So, I knew it didn't have to be perfect and I got perfect out of my head because
perfect can be bad. And the standard was I set every damn, read a thousand words, regardless.
I read a thousand words and I tried to do it in an hour or less. So, that's what I did.
I made no music, no phone, no videos playing in the background. I have an hour. I'm going to sit
down. I'm going to get this done. So, to me, that's a form of motivation. When you say, okay,
this is what I'm going to do. This is how I'm going to do it. This is how long it's going to
take me. I'm going to get it done. I'm probably going to try and get it done faster than an hour.
And I used to time myself and do that. I don't want to took me, you know, 49 minutes. That's
pretty good. Kind of like a crossfit exercise. Yeah. Like you're going into it. I'm going to
with a challenge. And then you go about it in a disciplined way. And that's going to be the core
of a lot of answers I give. Yeah. I think I'm going to disagree on a personal level from a personal
standpoint. I mean, with the no music thing, I think the music in my case helps. I think for a lot
of people, music helps. It might, when I talk specifically about writing, then music does not help me.
Especially music with words. Like if there's lyrics, you know, but if it's like, um, like some
piano or something like that. Okay. That's yeah. Echo, your are clear to listen piano as you create.
Okay. Some violins, Marcus, I think that would work too. For cello.
Any, was there more to the one? No. That was correct. I'm good. Any advice on balancing the
thousands of things you have to do every day? Yeah. Again, chapter in the book, it's called
Prioritized and excut, Prioritized and execute. That is the name of the chapter. That is a
one of the basic principles, one of the laws of combat that we used and that is that you're
going to have all these problems happening on the battlefield. They're all going to happen at the
same time because Murphy's Law. And when they do, if you try and handle them all at once and you try
and do them on all at once, you will fail. So what you have to do is you have to prioritize them
and execute. So in business that looks the same way. You got to these problems, though, these,
you know, initiatives that you're trying to start, these things you've got to handle and that's
that's good and that looks very similar on the battlefield on a personal level. It's the same
principle. But I'll tell you what I consider to be for lack of a better word, I will use this word.
I will tell you the hack for this. And this is no genius thing here. If you really want to get
things done, make a list of what you need to do the next day, make it in a priority. What you
actually need to do is schedule the time that you're going to execute those tasks. This is a piece
that a lot of people miss. So I guess it is a little bit bigger of a hack than then I gave it credit
for. You have to say, okay, I've got to do these six things tomorrow. You've got to put on your
schedule when you are going to do those things. And that really drives execution because it puts a
time limit on it and it makes you get on there and get it started and get it done so you can move
onto the next task. So taskless and calendars should actually be connected, you know, intimately.
And then once you have that in place, you get up and you go and you get it done.
Wake up early and make it happen. Prioritize and execute. That's what we do.
New Year's resolutions. 2016 is coming up in a few days. So what's your one thing for 2016
that you need to do such that by doing it, everything else will be easier and or unnecessary.
And that's one of the New Year's resolution questions that we pulled out because I got a bunch of them.
Because everyone's thinking, you know, what is what are we all going to do for the big New Year's
resolution? And I mean, you seem pretty fired up by the New Year's resolution. So so what are your
thoughts here? My personal New Year's resolution and or thoughts therein.
I've, you know, I'm be honest. I haven't come up with any specific ones right now.
Maybe I will, maybe I won't, but I think yeah, I think all evaluate where I want to be, where I am.
And let's see if I can connect those dots. Whatever that looks like, okay, you know, I don't know yet,
but we'll see. Well, that sounds real hard. Anyone that just heard that in the world,
please ignore and delete from your mind. Okay, well, actually here's the funny thing.
As I think that resolutions are for the most part,
little feel good statements that people use to justify a delay in execution. That's what I think.
So I say, don't make a New Year's resolution for tomorrow. Don't execute then.
Execute now. Execute now. And when I say execute now, I mean now and now and now and now and
continually execute what it is you're trying to do. And the other thing about New Year's resolution is
it's a year. That's a big long chunk of time. And that type of goal to anybody. I don't care who you are.
A year is too long. It's too big of a chunk. So saying that you're going to
make that type of a long term strategic goal. It's like shooting when you shoot. If you ever shot weapons
before, if you look at the target, the long target that's 400 meters away, if you look at the target
as you look at it, your vision can't hold that focus and it becomes blurry. So you have to shift back
to the front side of your weapon, which is only two and a half feet away. And then that becomes very
clear and the long distance target in the background fades a little bit, but that's okay,
because you can see that thing right in front of you. And that's what you want to make happen.
So what you want to do is you want to set those short terms goals that are closer than a year away.
That's going to be blurry and it's going to lose its impact and you're going to not see it anymore.
So make up that long term strategic goal that's fine, but make sure you make some short term
tactical goals that are closer. Now that being said, to close this out since the last question
I would say, don't make a new year's resolution to be a better person in 2016.
I would say make a resolution to be a better person now.
Make it a resolution of discipline to get better, smarter, faster, stronger, healthier,
more productive, less agitated to eat cleaner, live more, to go and do. Do all those things,
but don't do them on New Year's Eve, don't do them on New Year's Day, do them now.
That resolution of discipline to work and follow through and maintain your will.
That'll result in the freedom that you're looking for.
Yes, you heard it once again. Discipline equals freedom.
And with that, that's all I got. Thank you, Mr. Eckeau. Thank you. Everyone that's out there listening.
We appreciate it. We will see you next time.
Keep getting better.